Thank you for joining us for this JW Broadcasting Special Update.
We have a video report from Azerbaijan on the experience of two sisters who were released
after 11 months in jail for sharing their faith.
On December 5, 2014, authorities in Azerbaijan arrested sisters Arina Zakocenko and
deleted Jabrayila, simply for offering the teacher children brochure to one of their neighbors.
The person they were witnessing to had expressed interest and even requested the brochure.
Their actions were completely legal.
However, for 11 months, authorities kept them isolated in filthy jail cells where guards
humiliated and mocked them.
Conditions in prison severely harmed the health of both sisters, but particularly sisters
Zakocenko.
Now many of your brothers and sisters closely followed these events in the JW.org newsroom.
You offered countless prayers on their behalf, petitioning Jehovah for their well-being
and release.
Also local brothers repeatedly appealed the court's unjust decisions to detain the sisters.
Headquarters representatives brought Arina and Valida's plight to the attention of international
officials.
The experience of these two sisters assures us of Jehovah's concern for those facing trials.
2 Peter 2 and verse 9 says that Jehovah knows how to rescue people of Godly devotion
out of trial.
And Psalm 34 and verse 15 guarantees that the eyes of Jehovah are on the righteous and
his ears listen to their cry for help.
The release of Arina and Valida from prison on January 28, 2016 confirms the truthfulness
of these verses.
In this report, Arina and Valida recount what they went through and how they personally
felt Jehovah's sustaining power.
Last year has proved to be a terrible experience for me.
It was December of 2014.
I was sharing the good news with people.
I did not expect at all that this would happen.
We were detained by police officers.
On 17 February 2015, when the judge announced his custodial sentence, I did not realize that
I was being jailed.
It's only when I was put in a cell I realized that I've been jailed.
It was a small cell with a little window and the cell sank.
We were desperate even for some fresh air.
The door had a peephole and guards would often look through it.
That made me feel really uncomfortable and embarrassed.
When I was in detention, I was worried about my family because I am concerned about their
spirituality.
I am concerned about how they are coping without me and I am concerned about my family's
security.
They investigated, told me, everyone has turned away from you.
You've been abandoned.
Jehovah's Witnesses have left you too.
Even when they escorted us to court, they would make sure we were not able to see anyone.
For almost 11 months, I did not have access to a Bible.
This made it very difficult for me.
However, I recalled the examples of the prophets and that really helped.
Now that I was in prison, I could really understand how they had felt.
The scripture that helped me the most was Philippians 4.13.
For all things I have the strength through the one who gives me power.
I knew Jehovah God was the one strengthening me.
My imprisonment had been extended for the third time.
After the hearing, I felt really down.
I begged Jehovah, Jehovah, I am such a need for a kind word.
For you care, Jehovah, please help me.
I was crying as I was being led back to myself.
There was a guard there who had shouted at me before for being a Jehovah's Witness.
When he saw me crying, he asked me, why are you here?
I said, for God's name, if you are here because of God, be patient and endure, God will help you.
That really scared me up.
Above all, it was prayer to Jehovah that helped me.
Because your brothers and sisters, your family, they can be taken away from you.
But it was prayer to Jehovah and the knowledge I received in the organization that helped me endure under trials.
After ten months, I was transferred to prison in Kurdakhane.
One day I received a package from home. It was food sent by my family.
When I saw a Bible in the package, I was so happy, I was overjoyed.
There was a woman there, she said, look at her, she's so happy about her Bible that she forgot about the food.
The court hearing was approaching. I was constantly praying to Jehovah.
The lady who was the victim had falsely claimed that I told her God will destroy the earth.
I could not prepare Bible verses as a reply to this.
In the courtroom, I was able to quote a Bible verse of my heart against her false accusation.
It was Psalm 104 verse 5, where it says that Jehovah has firmly established the foundations of the earth,
and the earth will not be moved.
I did not have a grudge against the woman who had falsely accused me.
I said to her in the courtroom, despite all the suffering I forgive you.
Because in the Bible God says, you must love even your enemies.
So God teaches that. I forgive you.
I was so happy when I was released, most of all because I was able to stay faithful to Jehovah.
I'm thankful to Jehovah.
When I was in prison, I could see that the whole brotherhood is praying for us,
and I had really experienced the power of prayer.
Now I am determined to always pray for brothers who are facing difficulties,
so that they too may experience the power of prayer.
I am grateful for the fact that I am home at last.
I am reunited with my family and my brothers and sisters.
I can pray in attend congregation meetings.
Our fellow believers worldwide, Jehovah's Witnesses, had written letters to me.
When I was released and received those letters, that once again proved to me
that Jehovah and his people had never left me.
I'm grateful for this to Jehovah and to his people.
Arena and Valida continue to recover from their 11-month ordeal,
and we truly commend them for their integrity,
which really calls to mind Romans 1 and verse 8, which reads,
first of all, I give thanks to my God through Jesus Christ concerning all of you,
because your faith is talked about throughout the whole world.
These faithful sisters are two of many who give a witness by word and action
despite suffering trials, reminding us of Hebrews 11, verse 34,
which says, from a week's date, they were made powerful.
As we think of our brothers and sisters imprisoned in Eritrea, Turkmenistan,
South Korea, Singapore, and elsewhere,
we think of the words at Hebrews 13, verse 3.
It says, keep in mind those in prison, as though you were imprisoned with them,
and those being mistreated since you yourselves also are in the body.
Well, you can see how our two sisters were encouraged by your prayers and letters.
Thank you for keeping in mind all those who suffer as integrity keepers.
And let us all thank Jehovah for strengthening these dear sisters and delivering them.
And like Arena, we also praise God who, according to Philippians 413,
is the one who gives us power.
Thank you for joining us for this report from Brooklyn, New York.
This is JW Broadcasting.